Entry 8 (Honorable Mention)
===========================

.. image:: entry8.png

Authors
-------

- Nicolas Rougier


Title
-----

Structural reorganization of the primary somatosensory cortex under
the influence of attention and training


Short caption
-------------

Top: histograms of relative change of receptive field sizes in the
region of interest under the influence of intensive stimulation,
attention and a combination of both. Bottom: receptive field of a
single cell recorded at the end of each of the aforementioned
experiment.


Long caption
------------

Figure 2: Relative change of receptive field sizes in the RoI compared
to the reference. A. Histogram of receptive field relative sizes in
the RoI after initial training (50 000 samples) without any gain
modulation nor intensive stimulation. Values below zero indicate
receptive field with size smaller than the mean (actual mean=0.029
mm2, std=0.0058) B. Histogram of receptive field size changes with
intensive stimulation in the RoI (with a 3 to 1 ratio) using 30 000
extra samples. Values below zero indicate receptive field
shrinkage. The solid vertical bar indicates the mean size change for
the whole population within the RoI (actual mean=0.019 mm2,
std=0.0053). C. Histogram of receptive field size changes with long
term gain modulaton in the RoI using 30 000 extra samples. Values
below zero indicate receptive field shrinkage. The solid vertical bar
indicates the mean size change for the whole population within the RoI
(actual mean=0.016 mm2, std=0.0045). D. Histogram of receptive field
size changes with long term gain modulaton and intensive stimulation
(with a 1/1 ratio) in the RoI using 30 000 extra samples. Values below
zero indicate receptive field shrinkage. The solid vertical bar
indicates the mean size change for the whole populatiuon within the
RoI (actual mean=0.011 mm2, std=0.0053) Bottom row. Receptive field of
a single cell recorded at the end of each of the aforementionned
experiment. The receptive field size in the LTGM-IS experiment (0.010
mm2) has shrunk to one third of the reference size (0.030 mm2) while
being stronger.

All the (real) data are in the
`<http://webloria.loria.fr/~rougier/tmp/Scipy-2013/>`_ but they're rather
big. The figure comes from a publication (in preparation) related to
the self-organization of the somato-sensory cortex.

Products
--------

- :download:`PDF <size-histogram.pdf>`

Source
------

.. literalinclude:: size-histogram.py

- :download:`Python source <size-histogram.py>`
