Title : SymPy Gamma and SymPy Live: Python and Mathematics Online
=================================================================

Authors :
----------

- David Li, SymPy

Track :
-------

General

Abstract :
----------

Slides: http://lidavidm.github.io/scipy/slides.html

SymPy Live: http://live.sympy.org

SymPy Gamma: http://www.sympygamma.com

SymPy (http://www.sympy.org) is a Python library for symbolic mathematics
and a computer algebra system. The project also develops two web
applications that allow users to experiment with mathematics online, SymPy
Gamma and SymPy Live. SymPy Gamma, modeled after Wolfram|Alpha, lets users
enter mathematical expressions and see a variety of related computations and
visualizations. Meanwhile, SymPy Live provides an online Python shell with
features, such as LaTeX equation rendering, designed to aid the manipulation
of mathematics with Python.

This talk will examine the implementation and development of the web
applications as well as general experiences contributing to the SymPy
project. In particular, the design of Gamma and the implementation of its
server will be examined, as well as its features that help users explore
mathematics using the SymPy library. For instance, by entering a
trigonometric expression, users will receive alternate forms of the input, a
plot, a series expansion, and other pertinent information. Furthermore, the
purposes and development of SymPy Live will be examined, including the
execution of code on Google App Engine and the development of the mobile
site and other features during the 2011 Google Code-In contest and
afterwards. One such feature is in SymPy's Sphinx documentation, which
leverages SymPy Live to let users easily execute and see the results of any
code examples in the documentation, and then use the shell to continue
exploring the capabilities of this library.
