
Title : The Advantages of a Scientific IDE
==========================================

Authors : 
----------

- Carlos Cordoba, The Spyder Project


Track : 
-------

Reproducible Science, [Wednesday June 26, 11:30 - 11:50, Room 203](http://conference.scipy.org/scipy2013/presentation_detail.php?id=172)


Abstract : 
----------

The enormous progress made by the IPython project during the last two years,
has made many of us --the Python scientific community-- think that we are quite
close to provide an application that can rival the big two M's of the computing
scientific world: Matlab and Mathematica.

However, after following the project on GitHub and its mailing list for almost
the same time and specially after reading its roadmap for the next two years,
we at Spyder believe that its real focus is different from that aim. IPython
developers are working hard to build several powerful and flexible interfaces
to evaluate and document code, but they seem to have some troubles on going
from a console application to a GUI one (e.g see GitHub Issues
[1747](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/1747),
[2203](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/2203),
[2522](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/2522),
[2974](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/2974) and
[2985](https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues/2985)).

We consider Spyder can really help to solve these issues, by integrating
IPython in a richer and more intuitive, yet powerful, environment. After
working with the mentioned M's, most people expects not only a good evaluation
interface but also easy access to rich text documentation, an specialized
editor and a namespace browser, tied with good debugging facilities. Spyder
already has all these features and, right now, also the best integration with
the IPython Qt frontend.

This shows that Spyder can be the perfect complement to IPython, providing what
it's missing and aiming to reach a wider audience (not just researchers and
graduate students). As the current Spyder maintainer, I would like to assist to
SciPy to show more concretely to the community what our added value to the
scientific Python ecosystem is. We would also like to get in closer contact
with her and have a direct feedback to define what should be the features we
need to work or improve on the next releases.


Slides :
-------

[PDF](./Talk.pdf)


Resources :
-----------

[The Spyder website](https://code.google.com/p/spyderlib/)
